By Colin A. Young, State House News Service
https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/baker-new-virus-models-estimate-up-to-172000-cases-statewide,601460


<button class="btn btn-xs btn-default 
<i aria-hidden="true" class="fa fa-desktop 
<span class="copy View fullscreen</span>
</button>
 

BOSTON — In a matter of "weeks and months," as many as 
172,000 Massachusetts residents could become infected with the coronavirus, and the surge 
of COVID-19 patients hospitals have been preparing for is now expected to 
hit sometime between April 10 and April 20, Gov. Charlie Baker said 
Thursday afternoon. 

The new projections are the result of a model put together over 
the last several weeks by public health experts, health care providers, academics 
and others. The governor detailed the information gleaned from the model in-depth 
for the first time Thursday. 

"We estimate at this point in time that the number of confirmed 
cases of COVID-19 in Massachusetts will range somewhere between 47,000 and 172,000 
cases during the course of the pandemic. That's about 0.7 percent to 
two-and-a-half percent of the total population in Massachusetts, and at this time 
the modeling indicates that hospitalizations would potentially peak between April 10 and 
April 20," Baker said. "The current fatality rate in Massachusetts is lower 
than in many other parts of the country in the world, currently 
running at approximately one-and-a-half percent of those infected." 

If the current COVID-19 fatality rate were to hold, the range of 
infections Baker gave Thursday could be expected to lead to between 705 
and 2,580 deaths in the Bay State. As of Thursday afternoon, Massachusetts 
has reported 8,966 confirmed COVID-19 cases and 154 deaths, while more than 
5,000 people are officially under quarantine while they're monitored for symptoms. Public 
health officials reported 32 deaths Thursday afternoon. 

In Berkshire County, the number of confirmed cases grew to 213 on 
Thursday — an increase of 30 from Wednesday. One additional death was 
reported in the Berkshires — a woman in her 70s who had 
been hospitalized — bringing the total to seven fatalities. 

The state model is based on data and experiences in Wuhan, China, 
where the virus originated, Baker said. He noted that there are several 
important differences between Wuhan and Massachusetts — including a lower population density 
here, a lower smoking rate and strict social distancing measures enacted sooner 
— and said "we do anticipate Massachusetts trajectory could differ for" those 
reasons and others. 

"We know all models are not perfect, but obviously you need to 
plan for the worst and at the end of the day hope 
you do not need to go that far," the governor said. 

Part of the planning process in recent weeks has been working with 
hospitals to implement surge plans under which they could expand their intensive 
care unit capacity. Baker said Health and Human Services Secretary Marylou Sudders 
and others in his administration have been working on those plans with 
hospitals and the Massachusetts Health and Hospital Association "for several weeks, so 
that we all are basically working off a similar playbook with respect 
to what's required to meet the projected need." And there is a 
projected need. 

"We believe that after hospitals execute on their surge plans — that 
is, what they believe they need to do with their current resources 
to add beds, staff and equipment —more beds will still be needed 
for both intensive care and for acute care here in Massachusetts," Baker 
said. "And based on our projections, we believe we need to expand 
capacity of ICU beds by approximately 500 beds in the coming weeks." 

To reduce the strain on hospitals, the state has been actively setting 
up field hospitals that can treat lower acuity patients who need to 
be monitored, but don't necessarily need to be in a physical hospital. 
Baker toured the first such facility Wednesday at Worcester's DCU Center. Additional 
field hospitals — the goal is to create another 750 to 1,000 
beds — could be set up at the Boston Convention & Exhibition 
Center, Joint Base Cape Cod, Springfield's Mass Mutual Building and other smaller 
locations. The governor said the state has secured a contractor to build 
the facilities once a health care partner has been finalized. 

Massachusetts also needs more ventilators, a piece of medical equipment that becomes 
essential for patients hit hardest by COVID-19, Baker said, but did not 
offer an estimate of the need. Earlier this week, the governor announced 
that the federal government would be sending more than 1,000 ventilators to 
Massachusetts. He said Monday that he expected the ventilators to arrive by 
the end of the week. 

But between Monday and Thursday, things changed. Instead of requesting 1,000 ventilators, 
the state revised its ask on Thursday and is now seeking 1,400 
ventilators, Sudders said. The state has not yet received any ventilators from 
the national stockpile, and Baker said Thursday that he no longer expects 
they will arrive by the end of the week. 

"The big thing the feds are trying to figure out at this 
point — and I'm mildly sympathetic to them on this one — 
is where they think the next big opportunity or the next big 
surge is going to be so that they make sure they deliver 
sort of just in time," Baker said. "They don't want to be 
putting them out to people long before they're actually going to be 
necessary or put into use." 

Whenever ventilators arrive, Sudders said, they will immediately be sent to hospitals 
for testing and that a panel of medical experts is being put 
together to determine how those ventilators should be allocated to facilities around 
the state. 

As Baker spoke Thursday, a plane owned by the New England Patriots 
was en route to Logan International Airport, loaded with more than 1.2 
million N95 masks for New England and New York health care workers 
to protect themselves as they care for COVID-19 patients and fight the 
coronavirus pandemic. 

The shipment of personal protective equipment was the result of a weekslong 
quest and the work of Baker and the Kraft family. Baker said 
Thursday that "nearly one million" of the masks will go to front-line 
workers in Massachusetts. 

"This was a collaboration between U.S. and Chinese government and private sector 
folks, and required a lot of support from many entities and agencies 
along the way.," Baker said. "We're grateful that the Patriots plane was 
able to land in China, load up and return quickly to the 
U.S. I also want to thank the People's Republic of China for 
going to the lengths they went to to make this humanitarian aid 
trip possible." 

Masks are a critical piece of personal protective equipment for hospital workers 
and though the shipment secured with the help of the Patriots will 
help, Baker said it still will not be enough. To try to 
extend the useful life of each mask, Partners HealthCare is setting up 
an N95 mask decontamination center in Somerville. 

Sudders announced that Partners had secured a Battelle N95 decontamination system, which 
can decontaminate up to 80,000 of the masks each day, and plans 
to have it up and running at a vacant KMart site in 
Somerville by Monday. 

Sudders said decontaminating 80,000 masks a day "should cover all demand in 
Massachusetts over time." She said each mask could be decontaminated five to 
10 times before it has to be discarded. 

"You combine that shipment with the machine Secretary Sudders talked about and 
while we will never have enough gear — we are always going 
to be seeking gear, we have a huge pipeline of additional asks 
and potential orders and all the rest — ... this gives us 
the thing we have heard time and time again from first responders 
and emergency medics medical personnel and nurses and docs and everybody else 
on the health care side, which is N95 gear. And the fact 
that we'll be able to decontaminate it and use it on an 
extended basis using an FDA-approved machine that will be located right here 
in Massachusetts creates a shelf life for that equipment." 

Once the masks are unloaded from the plane, Sudders said they will 
be taken to a state warehouse, inventoried and prepared for distribution. She 
said the state plans to first distribute the gear to facilities that 
have five days worth of gear or fewer first. Allocations will be 
based on each facility's likelihood of exposure. 

"So it's hospitals, nursing homes, EMS, fire, police, schools and then other 
agencies," Sudders said. "That's just sort of the hierarchy of how we 
will distribute it from, again, from who needs N95 in terms of 
the highest likelihood of COVID-19 exposure to the lower likelihood." 

The state will also begin reporting data on personal protective equipment distribution, 
Sudders said, so the public knows where the critical gear is being 
delivered. 

At the start of his press conference, Baker acknowledged that the social 
distancing measures put in place over the last few weeks have been 
"extremely hard" and have changed how everyone lives their life. But, he 
said, those steps are crucial to putting Massachusetts in a better position 
to be able to handle the approaching COVID-19 surge. 

"The next three to four weeks are going to be very difficult 
ones," he said. "We're supposed to do everything we possibly can to 
limit our exposure to other people. This virus can't survive if it 
can't jump from one person to the next." 

