By Larry Parnass, The Berkshire Eagle
https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/dalton-select-board-delays-decision-on-police-officers-firing,603643

Help for those with suicidal thoughts is available through the 
Brien Center's 24-hour hotline, 800-252-0227. People seeking addiction treatment can 
contact the center at 413-499-0412. 

DALTON — A Dalton dispatcher's decision to radio out word 
of a "domestic" incident may prove pivotal in whether a 
town police officer loses his job. 

For the third time in April, Dalton Select Board members 
met Thursday from remote locations to decide whether Officer John 
M. Marley's https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/she-said-she-wanted-to-die-why-did-dalton-officer-not-respond,603213 
decision not to go immediately to a 
North Street address last November should cost him his job. 
 

Though testimony so far has established that Marley was aware 
https://memorial.deryfuneralhome.com/sherilyn-hayes/4043975/index.php?fbclid=IwAR30SGycvC36zB0asTiUyDlnTpgmRY8dQWMG6VIDC833vDl5DRxa9_05vu4 
Sherilyn Hayes had threatened to harm herself, he did 
not respond. Hayes, 24, was later found dead by suicide. 
 

A consultant hired by the town determined Marley should have 
gone to the call. 

"A reasonable police officer should have responded, period," Alfred P. 
Donovan, a retired Tewksbury police chief, told the board April 
9. "There were some very poor decisions here. Not going 
was not an option." 

Despite 90 minutes of evidence-gathering Thursday, on top of six 
hours of hearings to date, officials postponed a decision until 
next week at the earliest.  

In proceedings Thursday, it was the dispatcher on duty Nov. 
23, Frank M. Speth III, who came in for the 
toughest questioning by an attorney for Marley. 

Terence E. Coles, representing the longtime officer, contends Speth had 
no grounds to characterize the call he received from Tyler 
Hamilton, a neighbor of Hayes, and her fiance, Kyle Nutting, 
as a domestic incident. 

The town's attorney, Timothy D. Zessin, attempted to establish that 
Speth termed the incident a domestic issue because of a 
prior incident and was on solid grounds to do so. 

Gabrielle Taglieri, director of the town's communications center and herself 
a full-time dispatcher, said, under questioning, that Speth was wrong 
to term Hamilton's call a request to respond to a 
domestic incident.  

Such a label, she said, suggests that a dispute is 
ongoing and could lead to injury. In the case of 
the Nov. 23 call, Nutting had left the apartment.  

Taglieri said the call that was relayed to Marley should 
have been termed a "well-being check." Under questioning by Coles, 
she acknowledged that while most well-being checks result in officers 
visiting the addresses in question, not all do.Taglieri said she 
has never had cause to discipline Speth, though she said 
he should have confirmed the phone number of the neighbor 
who called the dispatch center.  

"There is no such thing as a perfect dispatcher," she 
said. 

The board plans to hold its fourth meeting on the 
matter of Marley's termination Thursday at 6 p.m. The session, 
on the Zoom video platform, can be seen on Dalton 
Community Television. 

Earlier hearings, on https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dvwhAelrl3M April 9 and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EJz_2zcItC4 April 16, 
can be viewed on YouTube. 

Larry Parnass can be reached at lparnass@berkshireeagle.com, at @larryparnass on 
Twitter and 413-588-8341. 

