By Scott Stafford, The Berkshire Eagle
https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/fourth-resident-at-williamstown-commons-dies-from-virus,601693

WILLIAMSTOWN — Another resident of Williamstown Commons has died at the facility 
after a battle with the COVID-19 virus, according to a spokeswoman for 
Berkshire Healthcare Systems, the owner of the nursing home. 

And as the virus plays out, staff are preparing to aid the 
ill residents in their recovery. 

The death Saturday marks the fourth at the center. The number of 
residents infected remains at 36, with no increase shown since Thursday, said 
Lisa Gaudet, vice president of communications for Berkshire Healthcare. One resident remains 
hospitalized. There have been no additional staff infections. 

Williamstown Commons has been dealing with a robust outbreak of the coronavirus 
since March 24. 

As the disease moves through its phases, Gaudet said, officials expect that 
some of the ill residents will move into the recovery phase one 
or two at a time. So, staff members are preparing to set 
aside space as a coronavirus recovery unit. There, the patients will go 
through rehabilitation to help them get stronger and move past the infection. 

"We'll start to have some people moving into recovery this week," she 
said. "That will be helpful, because once the virus moves through its 
process, the patient is immune. That will help to tamp down further 
infections. It will be helpful to have some folks who have developed 
an immunity." 

Gaudet cautioned that the fight rages on, and that other residents still 
might be lost to the virus. 

"I don't want to give false hope," she said. "We may have 
more who will not survive, but some who will." 

Staff members at the facility are looking forward to their reward — 
seeing the patients moving into recovery, Gaudet said. 

"They are like family to many of the staff," she said. "Some 
of the people these professionals have been working with for so long 
will be getting better — something they are really looking forward to." 

Meanwhile, State Rep. John Barrett III, D-North Adams, is demanding that the 
Massachusetts Department of Public Health begin testing all the residents at Williamstown 
Commons in an effort to separate the residents who test negative for 
the virus, as has been done at similar facilities farther east. 

"The ball's been dropped. Nine days have passed since I brought this 
to their attention and asked them to get somebody out here, and 
nobody's come," Barrett said. "Since then, there's been five deaths and no 
explanation. I am livid." 

Scott Stafford can be reached at sstafford@berkshireeagle.com or 413-629-4517. 

