To the editor: 

Dear Rep. Pignatelli: 

A law against all "Airbnbs" will cost us (ages 80 and 77) 
our home. https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/berkshire-legislator-asks-gov-baker-to-crack-down-on-short-term-rental-industry,601108 
"Berkshire legislator asks Gov. Baker to crack down on 
short-term rental industry," March 30. 

Our recent guests arrived with no symptoms or positive test, and kept 
distant from other humans. Brought their own groceries. Don't jump to a 
conclusion that Airbnb must be shut down while COVID-19 runs its course. 
PLEASE don't impose poverty on careful, short-term hosts because it`s a gesture 
of "doing something"! What evidence proves it will keep any of us 
safe from the pandemic? 

Let's stop all "second home" owners from coming and going to Berkshire 
County. How many of the "positives" in Berkshire are Airbnb hosts?How many 
victims in Berkshire County were recently out of town/state? elsewhere? Make a 
law that banks must offer short-term hosts cheap equity loans while we 
can't host our Airbnb guests. 

Closing hotels, big bed & breakfasts, restaurants, and bars keeps people out 
of crowded places among strangers who are ingesting, or clustering in elevators, 
or at performances. 

Our Airbnb guests stay in our guest house. They're away from us 
and from groups<span style="      self-quarantine..We're rural; our guests go outdoors to explore 
our grounds and take a walk along our country roads without meeting 
another person.</span> 

We pay two adults to work with us to clean the guest 
house thoroughly. Our guests from NYC haven't shaken our hands or come 
closer than 6' to speak. 

Recall the toxic impact of terror. We humans search for a cause 
to act on. It's a great shame of human history that many 
thousands of women and men, and cats, were burned and brutalized as 
"witches" because The Black Plague befell Europe. It seemed like a good 
idea at the time. 

The total illogic of the proposal to impose on us short-term hosts 
is proved by the "exception" that would force us to house the 
transient nurses or patients for whom there is insufficient hospital space. Remember 
the closing of thousands of square-footage of hospital space in the name 
of "efficiency" of health care and "productivity" of medical care? Remember the 
closing of North Adams Regional Hospital? Such decisions and failures of planning 
and science-based thinking have been typical all over the USA for many 
decades. 

We who host very few guests aren't the source of Covid-19. 

Julia K. Grace, 

Becket 

