By Tony Dobrowolski, The Berkshire Eagle
https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/pittsfield-man-accused-of-stomping-disabled-man-into-unconsciousness,603522

PITTSFIELD — A Pittsfield man was arrested Tuesday after, police 
say, he beat a disabled man into unconsciousness following an 
argument at a residence on Adam Street.  

Frank M. Messer, 59, of West Housatonic Street, pleaded not 
guilty Wednesday to one count of assault and battery with 
a dangerous weapon on a person over the age of 
60, during an arraignment in Central Berkshire District Court. The 
dangerous weapon is Messer's shod foot, which, police say, was 
clad in a sneaker that was equipped with a "hard 
sole." 

Officers responded to the Adam Street residence at 8:03 p.m., 
after a witness reported that Messer was arguing with Paul 
Martin, 62. Messer punched Martin in the face, then pushed 
him to the ground, before he "kicked and stomped the 
[expletive] out of his head," the witness said.  

Martin did not initiate the confrontation or attempt to hit 
Messer back, according to the witness. Martin, who lives on 
Rostone Place, was unconscious when Fire Department and emergency personnel 
arrived, but he had regained consciousness by the time officers 
had arrived. He said he couldn't remember what happened and 
couldn't remember what hit him. 

Messer told police that the two men were arguing about 
"something," and that Martin hit him in the face. He 
said he punched Martin in the face to defend himself 
but denied kicking him. He couldn't remember what the two 
men were arguing over, police said. 

Later that evening, while he was in custody at the 
police station, Messer tried to commit suicide by wrapping his 
socks around his neck, according to the police report.  

Public defender Caitlin Perry, who represented Messer, said the two 
men are acquaintances but "don't come in regular contact with 
each other."  

District Court Judge Jennifer Tyne released Messer on personal recognizance, 
under the condition that he have no contact with Martin. 
Assistant District Attorney Dillian Hecht represented the commonwealth at Messer's 
arraignment. A pretrial hearing is scheduled for July 29. 

