By Jeffrey Borak, The Berkshire Eagle
https://www.berkshireeagle.com/stories/tracy-wilson-approaches-career-coda-but-love-of-music-will-go-on,601624

   

"The next chapter of my life will be like a whole new 
novel," she said. "The school has always had top priority. Now, Tracy, 
it's your time to take priority." 

Tracy Wilson, executive director of Berkshire Music School 

PITTSFIELD — For Berkshire Music School executive director Tracy Wilson, it's all 
about the music.  

"Music is so deeply connected to the soul," she said during a 
recent interview in her office at the 80-year-old institution on Wendell Avenue. 
"If only people could find a way to make music, it would 
make them feel better." That's a large part of the school's reason 
for being, she says. It's why, on her first day on the 
job in October 2003, she moved the executive director's office from the 
first-floor street-facing parlor to the center of the ground floor. 

"[The parlor] didn't feel to me to be as welcoming as it 
should be," she said in an email. "[It] was a far better 
room for teaching music with a big front window so [passers by] 
could see and hear music in the making."  

The move also would allow her "to see all the comings and 
goings of the school," she said, "and families, staff and faculty members 
would know that my door would always be open to them." 

In June, at a date that has yet to be determined, that 
door will close and another will open. Wilson, 64, will be stepping 
down, retiring, after nearly 17 years in a job she's wanted ever 
since high school in Geneva, Neb., where she was born and raised 
and her father served at a Lutheran church. 

"I've always wanted to lead an arts organization," Wilson said. "A friend 
even wrote it in my yearbook — 'She'll be running a music 
institution.'" 

Her route to the Berkshires led her to nearby Lincoln, Neb., where 
she was an undergraduate music major at the University of Nebraska, and 
then to Washington, D.C. to complete her studies for a University of 
Nebraska-issued Masters of Music and Arts Administration at Catholic University and the 
John F. Kennedy Center for the Arts, which, on completion of her 
Masters, hired Wilson as education program coordinator. 

Looking back, Wilson has no doubt that she and the Berkshires were 
destined for one another. While working at the Kennedy Center, she spent 
summers — three of them — in Vermont as music director for 
the Weston Playhouse cabaret and assistant music director for the theater's main 
stage productions. She was caught by this part of Massachusetts, she said, 
as she drove through on her way to and from Weston.  

She moved from Washington, D.C. to the Berkshires in the fall of 
1985 and applied for a job with the Boston Symphony Orchestra with 
the hope of working at Tanglewood. Instead, she said, the position they 
offered would have kept her in Boston. "I didn't want to live 
in Boston," she said. 

She wound up Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival instead, where she went to 
work in January 1986 as a development assistant. She moved up a 
notch in the department when her boss quit. "I was perfectly green," 
she said with a laugh. 

She had been at the Pillow two years when, she said, "Berkshire 
Museum came knocking at my door," offering her a job as development 
director. In addition to development director, over the course of her nine-plus 
years at the museum, she served twice as interim director/co-director. Then, in 
1996, the long-sought opportunity with the Boston Symphony materialized. Wilson was named 
director of Tanglewood Annual Funds and Community Relations, a position she held 
for seven years when then-Berkshire Music School president Joan McFalls tapped her 
for the school's top job. Words on a yearbook page turned to 
reality. 

"I wanted the school to be a success," Wilson said. "I wanted 
to steer the ship and welcomed the opportunity to be in charge." 

Wilson's goals were to make the school financially stable; ramp up faculty 
recitals; bolster the school's annual appeal; and expand programming. Before she could 
accomplish any of that, she had to deal with the fact that 
many people "did not know about the school, even though we have 
been around since 1940, nor its location. So, I started to tell 
people that the Berkshire Museum (which fronts South Street and backs up 
to BMS' Taft Recital Hall) is behind the music school," she said 
in her email.  

"Also, so many people thought the school taught only classical music, which 
it pretty much did but dance, one level of cabaret, and music 
theater were offered when I started. So from the beginning, I knew 
I needed to be the school's number one cheerleader, diversify the offerings, 
and get the school more involved in the community." 

She's done that. Operating on an annual budget of $550,000, the school 
— which is on temporary hiatus during this coronavirus pandemic — offers 
its 250 students private and group lessons in piano, jazz piano, electric 
keyboard. sight-singing, percussion, voice, violin, brass, winds, theory, composition; classes and workshops 
in guitar, music for youngsters between the ages of 1 and 3 
; onstage performance for teens and pre-teens, and cabaret. There also are 
classes for various instrumental ensembles, all taught after public school hours by 
a faculty of 35, two-thirds of whom are Wilson hires. Community outreach 
has, in many ways, been Wilson's most satisfying accomplishment. She estimates the 
school has reached anywhere between 2,000 and 3,000 people through an association 
with Berkshire County Arc, which serves children and adults with intellectual and 
developmental disabilities, and a variety of what Wilson calls "fabulous events — 
think Painted Violin Project; Painted Piano Project; Evening at Elm Court; two 
events at Blantyre; two concerts by John Pizzarelli; concerts by Joey Silverstein, 
and by MiDori; 75th anniversary Gala at Colonial Theatre; 65th anniversary gala 
at Model Farm ... " she said in the email.  

Her greatest satisfaction, she said, "is watching students of all ages find 
their way to music and the pride they show when they complete 
a performance, whether it's just for me or a roomful of appreciative 
audience members." 

She also is proud of having brought "outstanding teachers to the school; 
experienced educators and performers, kind, creative and compassionate people," one of whom, 
David Wampler, a 68-year-old trombonist, just happens to be Wilson's husband. 

They met while she was working at Jacob's Pillow. She had gone 
back to Lincoln for a family event and was at a jazz 
club with a friend. Wilson told her friend she recognized the horn 
player in the band "from somewhere." It turned out "he was a 
grad at Nebraska when I was an undergrad," Wilson said during her 
office interview. "I pretty much knew who everyone was in the music 
department." 

Wilson was, still is, a pianist. "The word at the time was 
that pianists didn't always fraternize with horn players," Wilson said lightly. 

They carried on a long-distance relationship between Lincoln and the Berkshires until 
finally, in the summer of 1987, "he packed up all his things 
and moved out here," Wilson said. He found work as a freelance 
musician, playing with the Albany Symphony and in the pit for several 
musical productions. He now teaches at College of St. Rose in Albany, 
N.Y. They married six years later. They live in Becket together with 
their rescue dog, an "Alabama swamp dog," Wilson says, named Tanner.  

For Wilson, running Berkshire Music School has been "much more than a 
job. It's who I am as a person," she said. "It's who 
I want to be."  

Her successor has not yet been chosen. Wilson is hopeful she will 
leave behind a legacy of "good leadership, hard work, fairness; of creativity. 
People have said to me that I've been running the school as 
my own little parish; that the school is like a mini-Juilliard only 
better. I've always tried to be fair and honest and balanced." 

She's been thinking about retiring for a while, she said. She will 
continue conducting the Stockbridge Festival Chorus with which, with the exception of 
her time with the BSO, she's been associated since 1992; and this 
summer will be her third as music director of the Stockbridge Sinfonia. 
In addition to continuing her piano playing, she will take up another 
instrument — the cello. "I haven't unpacked my cello case in years," 
she said. 

She's anticipating traveling with her husband and taking long walks with him 
and their dog. She's also looking forward to attending closed Friday BSO 
rehearsals at Tanglewood. And, she said, "the first day of retirement, I 
am going to buy a kayak — we live really close to 
Greenwater Pond — and a subscription to the New York Times. 

"The next chapter of my life will be like a whole new 
novel," she said. "The school has always had top priority. Now, Tracy, 
it's your time to take priority." 

